The Windows operating system (OS) is a complex product with many system files, utilities, settings, features, etc.
The Windows operating system has a long history dating back to 1985, and currently, it is the dominant operating system in both home use and corporate networks.
Windows XP was a popular version of Windows and had a long-running. Microsoft announced Windows Vista, which was a complete overhaul of the Windows operating system. There were many issues with Windows Vista.
When Microsoft announced the end-of-life date for Windows XP, many customers panicked. Corporations, hospitals, etc., scrambled and tested the next viable Windows version, which was Windows 7, against many other hardware and devices. Vendors had to work against the clock to ensure their products worked with Windows 7 for their customers. 
Windows 7, as quickly as it was released soon after, was marked with an end of support date. Windows 8.x came and left and it was short-lived, like Vista.
Then arrived Windows 10, which is the current Windows operating system version for desktop computers.
Windows 10 comes in 2 flavors, Home and Pro. 
Even though we didn't talk about servers, the current version of the Windows operating system for servers is Windows Server 2019.
The Windows Desktop, aka the graphical user interface or GUI in short, is the screen that welcomes you once you log into a Windows 10 machine.
Traditionally, you need to pass the login screen first. The login screen is where you need to enter valid account credentials; usually, a username & password of a preexisting Windows account on that particular system or in the Active Directory environment (if it's a domain-joined machine). 
What encryption can you enable on Pro that you can't enable in Home?
ans --> ""BitLocker""

components of desktop
-->  The Desktop
-->  Start Menu
-->  Search Box (Cortana)
-->  Task View
-->  Taskbar
-->  Toolbars
-->  Notification Area

Note: In a Remote Desktop session, some of the display settings will be disabled. 
In previous versions of Windows, the word Start was visible at the bottom left corner of the desktop GUI. In modern versions of Windows, such as Windows 10, the word 'Start' doesn't appear anymore, but rather a Windows Logo is shown instead.
The right side of the Start Menu is where you will find icons for specific apps/programs or utilities. These icons are known as tiles. Some tiles are added to this section by default. If you right-click any of the tiles, you guessed it; a menu will appear to allow you to perform more actions on the selected tile; such as resizing the tile, unpinning from Start Menu, view its Properties, etc.
Some of the components are enabled and visible by default. The Toolbar (6), for example, was enabled for demonstration purposes.  
If you're like me and want to disable some of these components, you can right-click on Taskbar to bring up a context menu that will allow you to make changes.
Any apps/programs, folders, files, etc., that you open/start will appear in the taskbar. 
Hovering over the icon will provide a preview thumbnail, along with a tooltip. This  tooltip is handy if you have many apps/programs open, such as Google Chrome, and you wish to find which instance of Google Chrome is the one you need to bring in to focus. 

The file system used in modern versions of Windows is the New Technology File System or simply NTFS.
Before NTFS, there was FAT16/FAT32 (File Allocation Table) and HPFS (High Performance File System). 

NTFS is known as a journaling file system. In case of a failure, the file system can automatically repair the folders/files on disk using information stored in a log file. This function is not possible with FAT. 
NTFS addresses many of the limitations of the previous file systems; such as: 

--> Supports files larger than 4GB
--> Set specific permissions on folders and files
--> Folder and file compression
--> Encryption (Encryption File System or EFS)

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-client/backup-and-storage/fat-hpfs-and-ntfs-file-systems

On NTFS volumes, you can set permissions that grant or deny access to files and folders.
The permissions are:
--> Full control
--> Modify
--> Read & Execute
--> List folder contents
--> Read
--> Write

How can you view the permissions for a file or folder?
--> Right-click the file or folder you want to check for permissions.
--> From the context menu, select Properties.
--> Within Properties, click on the Security tab.
--> In the Group or user names list, select the user, computer, or group whose permissions you want to view.

Refer to the Microsoft documentation to get a better understanding of the NTFS permissions for Special Permissions.


Another feature of NTFS is Alternate Data Streams (ADS).

Alternate Data Streams (ADS) is a file attribute specific to Windows NTFS (New Technology File System).
Every file has at least one data stream ($DATA), and ADS allows files to contain more than one stream of data. Natively Window Explorer doesn't display ADS to the user. There are 3rd party executables that can be used to view this data, but Powershell gives you the ability to view ADS for files.
From a security perspective, malware writers have used ADS to hide data.
Not all its uses are malicious. For example, when you download a file from the Internet, there are identifiers written to ADS to identify that the file was downloaded from the Internet.
https://blog.malwarebytes.com/101/2015/07/introduction-to-alternate-data-streams/ --> refer for more

The Windows folder (C:\Windows) is traditionally known as the folder which contains the Windows operating system. 
This is where environment variables, more specifically system environment variables, come into play. Even though not discussed yet, the system  environment variable for the Windows directory is %windir%.
Per Microsoft, "Environment variables store information about the operating system environment. This information includes details such as the operating system path, the number of processors used by the operating system, and the location of temporary folders".
The environment variables store data that is used by the operating system and other programs. For example, the WINDIR environment variable contains the location of the Windows installation directory. Programs can query the value of this variable to determine where Windows operating system files are located

C:\windows\System32\
The System32 folder holds the important files that are critical for the operating system.
You should proceed with extreme caution when interacting with this folder. Accidentally deleting any files or folders within System32 can render the Windows OS inoperational.
https://www.howtogeek.com/346997/what-is-the-system32-directory-and-why-you-shouldnt-delete-it/ --> refer for more
Note: Many of the tools that will be covered in the Windows Fundamentals series reside within the System32 folder. 

User accounts can be one of two types on a typical local Windows system: Administrator & Standard User. 

The user account type will determine what actions the user can perform on that specific Windows system. 
--> An Administrator can make changes to the system: add users, delete users, modify groups, modify settings on the system, etc. 
--> A Standard User can only make changes to folders/files attributed to the user & can't perform system-level changes, such as install programs.

One way is to click the Start Menu and type Other User. A shortcut to System Settings > Other users
When a user account is created, a profile is created for the user. The location for each user profile folder will fall under is C:\Users. for eg:- C:\Users\username

Each user profile will have the same folders; a few of them are:
--> Desktop
--> Documents
--> Downloads
--> Music
--> Pictures
Another way to access this information, and then some, is using """"""" Local User and Group Management. """"""" 
""""Right-click on the Start Menu and click Run. Type lusrmgr.msc. """"

Note: The Run Dialog Box allows us to open items quickly.
Back to lusrmgr, you should see two folders: Users and Groups. 
If you click on Groups, you see all the names of the local groups along with a brief description for each group. 
Each group has permissions set to it, and users are assigned/added to groups by the Administrator. When a user is assigned to a group, the user inherits the permissions of that group. A user can be assigned to multiple groups.

Note: If you click on Add someone else to this PC from Other users, it will open Local Users and Management. 

This elevated privilege increases the risk of system compromise because it makes it easier for malware to infect the system. Consequently, since the user account can make changes to the system, the malware would run in the context of the logged-in user.
To protect the local user with such privileges, Microsoft introduced User Account Control (UAC). This concept was first introduced with the short-lived Windows Vista and continued with versions of Windows that followed.
Note: UAC (by default) doesn't apply for the built-in local administrator account. 

When a user with an account type of administrator logs into a system, the current session doesn't run with elevated permissions. When an operation requiring higher-level privileges needs to execute, the user will be prompted to confirm if they permit the operation to run. 

Do you see the difference? When you're logged in as the standard user, the shield icon is on the program's default icon.
This shield icon is an indicator that UAC will prompt to allow higher-level privileges to install the program.

After some time, if a password is not entered, the UAC prompt disappears, and the program does not install. 
This feature reduces the likelihood of malware successfully compromising your system. You can read more about UAC here. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/identity-protection/user-account-control/how-user-account-control-works

On a Windows system, the primary locations to make changes are the Settings menu and the Control Panel.

Control Panel is the menu where you will access more complex settings and perform more complex actions. In some cases, you can start in Settings and end up in the Control Panel.
For example, in Settings, click on Network & Internet. From here, click on Change adapter options. 

The Task Manager provides information about the applications and processes currently running on the system. Other information is also available, such as how much CPU and RAM are being utilized, which falls under Performance. 
You can access the Task Manager by right-clicking the taskbar. 
Click on More details, and the view changes. as at first it wont show anything
https://www.howtogeek.com/405806/windows-task-manager-the-complete-guide/

Ctrl+Shift+Escape --> shortcut key for Task Manager
