 in computing, networking is the same idea, just dispersed to technological devices.In computing, a network can be formed by anywhere from 2 devices to billions. These devices include everything from your laptop and phone to security cameras, traffic lights and even farming!
The Internet is one giant network that consists of many, many small networks within itself. 

Because Alice can speak both languages, they can communicate to one another through Alice — forming a new network. (4 freinds of alice out of which form 2 group of different language)

As previously stated, the Internet is made up of many small networks all joined together.  These small networks are called private networks, where networks connecting these small networks are called public networks -- or the Internet

To communicate and maintain order, devices must be both identifying and identifiable on a network.

two means of identification, with one being permeable. These are:

--> An IP Address
--> A Media Access Control (MAC) Address -- think of this as being similar to a serial number.

Briefly, an IP address (or Internet Protocol) address can be used as a way of identifying a host on a network for a period of time, where that IP address can then be associated with another device without the IP address changing. 

192.168.1.1 -- 0-255.0-255.0-255.0-255 An IP address is a set of numbers that are divided into four octets. The value of each octet will summarise to be the IP address of the device on the network. This number is calculated through a technique known as IP addressing & subnetting, IP addresses can change from device to device but cannot be active simultaneously more than once within the same network.

IP Addresses follow a set of standards known as protocols. These protocols are the backbone of networking and force many devices to communicate in the same language.

A public address is used to identify the device on the Internet, whereas a private address is used to identify a device amongst other devices.

device 1 - privateIP - 192.168.1.77 publicIP - 86.157.52.21
device 2 - privateIP - 192.168.1.74 publicIP - 86.157.52.21 
hence public ip in private network remain same but private ip of device differ.

These two devices will be able to use their private IP addresses to communicate with each other. However, any data sent to the Internet from either of these devices will be identified by the same public IP address. Public IP addresses are given by your Internet Service Provider (or ISP) at a monthly fee

As more and more devices become connected, it is becoming increasingly harder to get a public address that isn't already in use.

IPv6 is a new iteration of the Internet Protocol addressing scheme,
--> Supports up to 2^128 (16x8) of IP addresses (340 trillion-plus), resolving the issues faced with IPv4
--> More efficient due to new methodologies


MAC Addresses

Devices on a network will all have a physical network interface, which is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. This network interface is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control ) address. The MAC address is a twelve-character hexadecimal number (a base sixteen numbering system used in computing to represent numbers) split into two's and separated by a colon. These colons are considered separators. For example, a4:c3:f0:85:ac:2d. The first six characters represent the company that made the network interface, and the last six is a unique number.

However, an interesting thing with MAC addresses is that they can be faked or "spoofed" in a process known as spoofing. This spoofing occurs when a networked device pretends to identify as another using its MAC address. When this occurs, it can often break poorly implemented security designs that assume that devices talking on a network are trustworthy.  If a device were to pretend or "spoof" this MAC address, the firewall would now think that it is receiving communication from the administrator when it isn't.

Places such as cafes, coffee shops, and hotels alike often use MAC address control when using their "Guest "or "Public" Wi-Fi. This configuration could offer better services, i.e. a faster connection for a price if you are willing to pay the fee per device. so to bypass the fee the attacker spoof the mac address and sent packet to the internet

Ping is one of the most fundamental network tools available to us. Ping uses ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) packets to determine the performance of a connection between devices, for example, if the connection exists or is reliable.

The time taken for ICMP packets travelling between devices is measured by ping. This measuring is done using ICMP's echo packet and then ICMP's echo reply from the target device.
