The goal of this room is to teach:

Evaluate information sources
Use search engines efficiently
Explore specialized search engines
Read technical documentation
Make use of social media
Check news outlets

We will mention a few things to consider when evaluating information:

Source: Identify the author or organization publishing the information. Consider whether they are reputable and authoritative on the subject matter. Publishing a blog post does not make one an authority on the subject.
Evidence and reasoning: Check whether the claims are backed by credible evidence and logical reasoning. We are seeking hard facts and solid arguments.
Objectivity and bias: Evaluate whether the information is presented impartially and rationally, reflecting multiple perspectives. We are not interested in authors pushing shady agendas, whether to promote a product or attack a rival.
Corroboration and consistency: Validate the presented information by corroboration from multiple independent sources. Check whether multiple reliable and reputable sources agree on the central claims.

Consider the following examples:

Google
Bing
DuckDuckGo
Let’s consider the search operators supported by Google.

"exact phrase": Double quotes indicate that you are looking for pages with the exact word or phrase. For example, one might search for "passive reconnaissance" to get pages with this exact phrase.
site:: This operator lets you specify the domain name to which you want to limit your search. For example, we can search for success stories on TryHackMe using site:tryhackme.com success stories.
-: The minus sign allows you to omit search results that contain a particular word or phrase. For example, you might be interested in learning about the pyramids, but you don’t want to view tourism websites; one approach is to search for pyramids -tourism or -tourism pyramids.
filetype:: This search operator is indispensable for finding files instead of web pages. Some of the file types you can search for using Google are Portable Document Format (PDF), Microsoft Word Document (DOC), Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet (XLS), and Microsoft PowerPoint Presentation (PPT). For example, to find cyber security presentations, try searching for filetype:ppt cyber security.

You can check more advanced controls in various search engines in this advanced search operators list; however, the above provides a good starting point. Check your favourite search engine for the supported search operators.
https://github.com/cipher387/Advanced-search-operators-list

Shodan
Let’s start with Shodan, a search engine for devices connected to the Internet. It allows you to search for specific types and versions of servers, networking equipment, industrial control systems, and IoT devices. You may want to see how many servers are still running Apache 2.4.1 and the distribution across countries. To find the answer, we can search for apache 2.4.1, which will return the list of servers with the string “apache 2.4.1” in their headers.

Consider visiting Shodan Search Query Examples for more examples. Furthermore, you can check Shodan trends for historical insights if you have a subscription.
https://www.shodan.io/search/examples
https://trends.shodan.io/

Censys
At first glance, Censys appears similar to Shodan. However, Shodan focuses on Internet-connected devices and systems, such as servers, routers, webcams, and IoT devices. Censys, on the other hand, focuses on Internet-connected hosts, websites, certificates, and other Internet assets. Some of its use cases include enumerating domains in use, auditing open ports and services, and discovering rogue assets within a network. You might want to check Censys Search Use Cases.
https://search.censys.io/
https://support.censys.io/hc/en-us/articles/20720064229140-Censys-Search-Use-Cases

VirusTotal
VirusTotal is an online website that provides a virus-scanning service for files using multiple antivirus engines. It allows users to upload files or provide URLs to scan them against numerous antivirus engines and website scanners in a single operation. They can even input file hashes to check the results of previously uploaded files.

Have I Been Pwned
Have I Been Pwned (HIBP) does one thing; it tells you if an email address has appeared in a leaked data breach. Finding one’s email within leaked data indicates leaked private information and, more importantly, passwords. Many users use the same password across multiple platforms, if one platform is breached, their password on other platforms is also exposed. Indeed, passwords are usually stored in encrypted format; however, many passwords are not that complex and can be recovered using a variety of attacks.



CVE
We can think of the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) program as a dictionary of vulnerabilities. It provides a standardized identifier for vulnerabilities and security issues in software and hardware products. Each vulnerability is assigned a CVE ID with a standardized format like CVE-2024-29988. This unique identifier (CVE ID) ensures that everyone from security researchers to vendors and IT professionals is referring to the same vulnerability, CVE-2024-29988 in this case.

The MITRE Corporation maintains the CVE system. For more information and to search for existing CVEs, visit the CVE Program website. Alternatively, visit the National Vulnerability Database (NVD) website. The screenshot below shows CVE-2014-0160, also known as Heartbleed.
https://www.cve.org/
https://nvd.nist.gov/



Exploit Database
There are many reasons why you would want to exploit a vulnerable application; one would be assessing a company’s security as part of its red team. Needless to say, we should not try to exploit a vulnerable system unless we are given permission, usually via a legally binding agreement.

Now that we have permission to exploit a vulnerable system, we might need to find a working exploit code. One resource is the Exploit Database. The Exploit Database lists exploit codes from various authors; some of these exploit codes are tested and marked as verified.

GitHub, a web-based platform for software development, can contain many tools related to CVEs, along with proof-of-concept (PoC) and exploit codes. To demonstrate this idea, check the screenshot below of search results on GitHub that are related to the Heartbleed vulnerability.



On Linux and every Unix-like system, each command is expected to have a man page. In fact, man pages also exist for system calls, library functions, and even configuration files.

Microsoft Windows
Microsoft provides an official Technical Documentation page for its products.
https://learn.microsoft.com/

Product Documentation
Every popular product is expected to have well-organized documentation. This documentation provides an official and reliable source of information about the product features and functions. Examples include Snort Official Documentation, Apache HTTP Server Documentation, PHP Documentation, and Node.js Documentation.
https://www.snort.org/documents
https://httpd.apache.org/docs/
https://www.php.net/manual/en/index.php
https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/

It is always rewarding to check the official documentation as it is the most up-to-date and offers the most complete product information.



We expect you to be familiar with popular platforms. However, if you are aware of any platform you are not familiar with, we recommend that you check it out and learn about it. Ideally, one would want to explore a platform without creating an account; however, this severely limits your experience. Instead, one recommendation is to use a temporary email address to discover these platforms without linking them to your real email addresses; once done, you can terminate the accounts and associated email addresses. One reason for not using your primary account is that you don’t want your contacts to start connecting with you there when you are only temporarily exploring a platform.

When protecting a company, you should ensure that the people you protect are not oversharing on social media. For instance, their social media might give away the answer to their secret questions, such as, “Which school did you go to as a child?”. Such information might allow adversaries to reset their passwords and take over their accounts effortlessly.

Furthermore, as a cyber security professional, you want to stay updated with new cyber security trends, technologies, and products. Following the proper channels and groups can provide a suitable environment for growing your technical expertise.

Besides staying updated via social media channels and groups, we should mention news outlets. Hundreds of news websites would offer valuable cyber-security-related news. Try different ones and stick with the ones you like most.


