-->  Introduction

The answer to both of the above questions lies in comparing the hash values of the two files; if two hash values are equal, you can say with very high certainty that the two files are identical.
A hash value is a fixed-size string or characters that is computed by a hash function. A hash function takes an input of an arbitrary size and returns an output of fixed length, i.e., a hash value. 

Learning Objectives
Upon the completion of this room, you will learn about:

*  Hash functions and collisions
*  The role of hashing in authentication systems
*  Recognizing stored hash values
*  Cracking hash values
*  The use of hashing for integrity protection


-->  Hash Functions

What is a Hash Function?
Hash functions are different from encryption. There is no key, and it’s meant to be impossible (or computationally impractical) to go from the output back to the input.

A hash function takes some input data of any size and creates a summary or digest of that data. The output has a fixed size. It’s hard to predict the output for any input and vice versa. Good hashing algorithms will be relatively fast to compute and prohibitively slow to reverse, i.e., go from the output and determine the input. Any slight change in the input data, even a single bit, should cause a significant change in the output.


we can see two files; the first contains the letter T, while the second contains the letter U. If you check T and U in an ASCII table or using hexdump, you will notice that the two letters differ by a single bit.
The letter T is 54 in hexadecimal, i.e., 01010100 in binary.
The letter U is 55 in hexadecimal, i.e., 01010101 in binary.
Consequently, the following two files differ by a single bit. However, if we compare their MD5 (Message-Digest Algorithm 5) hashes, their SHA1 (Secure Hash Algorithm 1) hashes, or their SHA-256 (Secure Hash Algorithm 256) hashes, we will notice that they are entirely different.

The output of a hash function is typically raw bytes, which are then encoded. Common encodings are base64 or hexadecimal. md5sum, sha1sum, sha256sum, and sha512sum produce their outputs in hexadecimal format. Remember that hexadecimal format prints each raw byte as two hexadecimal digits.

Why is Hashing Important?
Hashing plays a vital role in our daily use of the Internet. Like other cryptographic functions, hashing remains hidden from the user. Hashing helps protect data’s integrity and ensure password confidentiality.

What’s a Hash Collision?
A hash collision is when two different inputs give the same output. Hash functions are designed to avoid collisions as best as possible. Furthermore, hash functions are designed to prevent an attacker from being able to create, i.e., engineer, a collision intentionally. However, because the number of inputs is practically unlimited and the number of possible outputs is limited, this leads to a pigeonhole effect.

As a numeric example, if a hash function produces a 4-bit hash value, we only have 16 different hash values. The total number of possible hash values is 2number_of_bits = 24 = 16. The probability of a collision is relatively very high.

The pigeonhole effect states that the number of items (pigeons) is more than the number of containers (pigeonholes); some containers must hold more than one item. In other words, in this context, there are a fixed number of different output values for the hash function, but you can give it any size input. As there are more inputs than outputs, some inputs must inevitably give the same output. If you have 21 pigeons and 16 pigeonholes, some of the pigeons are going to share the pigeonholes. Consequently, collisions are unavoidable. However, a good hash function ensures that the probability of a collision is negligible.

MD5 and SHA1 have been attacked and are now considered insecure due to the ability to engineer hash collisions. However, no attack has yet given a collision in both algorithms simultaneously, so if you compare the MD5 and SHA1 hash, you will see that they’re different. You can view the MD5 collision example on the MD5 Collision Demo page; furthermore, you can read the details of the SHA1 collision attack at Shattered. Due to these, you shouldn’t trust either algorithm for hashing passwords or data.
https://www.mscs.dal.ca/~selinger/md5collision/
https://shattered.io/


-->  Insecure Password Storage for Authentication

It is important to note that this does not apply to password managers, where you must retrieve your password in cleartext. On the other hand, authentication mechanisms only need to confirm that the user knows the password so they can be granted access to the resource; therefore, this problem differs from password managers.

We will visit three insecure practices when it comes to passwords:

Storing passwords in plaintext
Storing passwords using a deprecated encryption
Storing passwords using an insecure hashing algorithm

Using an Insecure Hash Function
LinkedIn also suffered a data breach in 2012. LinkedIn used an insecure hashing algorithm, the SHA-1, to store user passwords. Furthermore, no password salting was used. Password salting refers to adding a salt, i.e., a random value, to the password before it is hashed.

strings rockyou.txt | sed -n '20p' --> this will grep the 20th line word


-->  Using Hashing for Secure Password Storage

A Rainbow Table is a lookup table of hashes to plaintexts, so you can quickly find out what password a user had just from the hash. A rainbow table trades the time to crack a hash for hard disk space, but it takes time to create.
Websites like CrackStation and Hashes.com internally use massive rainbow tables to provide fast password cracking for hashes without salts. Doing a lookup in a sorted list of hashes is quicker than trying to crack the hash.

Protecting Against Rainbow Tables
To protect against rainbow tables, we add a salt to the passwords. The salt is a randomly generated value stored in the database and should be unique to each user. In theory, you could use the same salt for all users, but duplicate passwords would still have the same hash and a rainbow table could still be created for passwords with that salt.

The salt is added to either the start or the end of the password before it’s hashed, and this means that every user will have a different password hash even if they have the same password. Hash functions like Bcrypt and Scrypt handle this automatically. Salts don’t need to be kept private.

Example of Securely Storing Passwords
You can find many good guides online that promote best security practices when storing passwords. Please check if there are any standards you need to follow when storing passwords before adopting one. Consider this example following good security practices when storing user passwords:

We select a secure hashing function, such as Argon2, Scrypt, Bcrypt, or PBKDF2.
We add a unique salt to the password, such as Y4UV*^(=go_!
Concatenate the password with the unique salt. For example, if the password is AL4RMc10k, the result string would be AL4RMc10kY4UV*^(=go_!
Calculate the hash value of the combined password and salt. In this example, using the chosen algorithm, you need to calculate the hash value of AL4RMc10kY4UV*^(=go_!.
Store the hash value and the unique salt used (Y4UV*^(=go_!).


-->  Recognising Password Hashes

Let’s tackle this from the offensive security perspective; if we start with a hash, how can we recognise its type, eventually crack it, and recover the original password?
Automated hash recognition tools such as hashID exist but are unreliable for many formats. For hashes that have a prefix, the tools are reliable. Use a healthy combination of context and tools.  If you find the hash in a web application database, it’s more likely to be MD5 than NTLM (NT LAN Manager). Automated hash recognition tools often get these hash types mixed up, highlighting the importance of learning yourself.
https://pypi.org/project/hashID/

On Linux, password hashes are stored in /etc/shadow, which is normally only readable by root. They used to be stored in /etc/passwd, which was readable by everyone.

The shadow file contains the password information. Each line contains nine fields, separated by colons (:). The first two fields are the login name and the encrypted password. More information about the other fields can be found by executing man 5 shadow on a Linux system.

The encrypted password field contains the hashed passphrase with four components: prefix (algorithm id), options (parameters), salt, and hash. It is saved in the format $prefix$options$salt$hash. The prefix makes it easy to recognise Unix and Linux-style passwords; it specifies the hashing algorithm used to generate the hash.

Here’s a quick table of some of the most common Unix-style password prefixes you might encounter. They are listed in the order of decreasing strength. You can read more about them by checking the man page with """man 5 crypt"""".

Prefix	                                                                        Algorithm
$y$	                                                  yescrypt is a scalable hashing scheme and is the default and recommended choice in new systems
$gy$	                                                gost-yescrypt uses the GOST R 34.11-2012 hash function and the yescrypt hashing method
$7$	                                                          scrypt is a password-based key derivation function
$2b$, $2y$, $2a$, $2x$	                              bcrypt is a hash based on the Blowfish block cipher originally developed for OpenBSD but supported on a recent version of FreeBSD, NetBSD, Solaris 10 and newer, and several Linux distributions
$6$	                                                  sha512crypt is a hash based on SHA-2 with 512-bit output originally developed for GNU libc and commonly used on (older) Linux systems
$md5	                                                            SunMD5 is a hash based on the MD5 algorithm originally developed for Solaris
$1$	                                                               md5crypt is a hash based on the MD5 algorithm originally developed for FreeBSD

MS Windows Passwords
MS Windows passwords are hashed using NTLM, a variant of MD4. They’re visually identical to MD4 and MD5 hashes, so it’s very important to use context to determine the hash type.

On MS Windows, password hashes are stored in the SAM (Security Accounts Manager). MS Windows tries to prevent normal users from dumping them, but tools like mimikatz exist to circumvent MS Windows security. Notably, the hashes found there are split into NT hashes and LM hashes.

https://hashcat.net/wiki/doku.php?id=example_hashes


-->  Password Cracking

You have to crack the hashes by hashing many different inputs (such as rockyou.txt as it covers many possible passwords), potentially adding the salt if there is one and comparing it to the target hash. Once it matches, you know what the password was. Tools like Hashcat and John the Ripper are commonly used for these purposes.

Cracking Passwords with GPUs
Modern GPUs (Graphics Processing Units) have thousands of cores. They are specialised in digital image processing and accelerating computer graphics. Although they can’t do the same sort of work that a CPU can, they are very good at some mathematical calculations involved in hash functions. You can use a graphics card to crack many hash types quickly. Some hashing algorithms, such as Bcrypt, are designed so that hashing on a GPU does not provide any speed improvement over using a CPU; this helps them resist cracking.

Cracking on VMs?
It’s worth mentioning that VMs (Virtual Machines) normally don’t have access to the host’s graphics card(s). Depending on the virtualisation software you are using, you can set this up, but it is cumbersome. Furthermore, performance degradation occurs as you use the CPU from a virtualised OS, and when your purpose is to crack a hash, you need every extra CPU cycle.

If you want to run Hashcat, it’s best to run it on your host to make the most of your GPU, if available. If you prefer MS Windows, you are in luck; MS Windows builds are available on the website, and you can run it from PowerShell. You can get Hashcat working with OpenCL in a VM, but the speeds will likely be worse than cracking on your host.

John the Ripper uses CPU by default and works in a VM out of the box, although you may get better speeds running it on the host OS to avoid any virtualisation overhead and make the most of your CPU cores and threads.

Hashcat uses the following basic syntax: hashcat -m <hash_type> -a <attack_mode> hashfile wordlist, where:

-m <hash_type> specifies the hash-type in numeric format. For example, -m 1000 is for NTLM. Check the official documentation (man hashcat) and example page to find the hash type code to use.
-a <attack_mode> specifies the attack-mode. For example, -a 0 is for straight, i.e., trying one password from the wordlist after the other.
hashfile is the file containing the hash you want to crack.
wordlist is the security word list you want to use in your attack.
For example, hashcat -m 3200 -a 0 hash.txt /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt will treat the hash as Bcrypt and try the passwords in the rockyou.txt file.


-->  Hashing for Integrity Checking
HMACs
HMAC (Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code) is a type of message authentication code (MAC) that uses a cryptographic hash function in combination with a secret key to verify the authenticity and integrity of data.

An HMAC can be used to ensure that the person who created the HMAC is who they say they are, i.e., authenticity is confirmed; moreover, it proves that the message hasn’t been modified or corrupted, i.e., integrity is maintained. This is achieved through the use of a secret key to prove authenticity and a hashing algorithm to produce a hash and prove integrity.

The following steps give you a fair idea of how HMAC works.

*  The secret key is padded to the block size of the hash function.
*  The padded key is XORed with a constant (usually a block of zeros or ones).
*  The message is hashed using the hash function with the XORed key.
*  The result from Step 3 is then hashed again with the same hash function but using the padded key XORed with another constant.
*  The final output is the HMAC value, typically a fixed-size string.

Technically speaking, the HMAC function is calculated using the following expression:

HMAC(K,M) = H((K⊕opad)||H((K⊕ipad)||M))

Note that M and K represent the message and the key, respectively.


-->  Conclusion

Hashing, as already stated, is a process that takes input data and produces a hash value, a fixed-size string of characters, also referred to as digest. This hash value uniquely represents the data, and any change in the data, no matter how small, should lead to a change in the hash value. Hashing should not be confused with encryption or encoding; hashing is one-way, and you can’t reverse the process to get the original data.

Encoding converts data from one form to another to make it compatible with a specific system. ASCII, UTF-8, UTF-16, UTF-32, ISO-8859-1, and Windows-1252 are valid encoding methods for the English language. Note that UTF-8, UTF-16, and UTF-32 are Unicode encodings, and they can represent characters from other languages, such as Arabic and Japanese.
Another type of encoding commonly used when sending or saving data is not for any specific language. Examples include Base32 and Base64 encoding.

Encoding should not be confused with encryption, as using a specific encoding does not protect the confidentiality of the message. Encoding is reversible; anyone can change the data encoding with the right tools.

Only encryption, which we covered in the previous rooms, protects data confidentiality using a cryptographic cipher and a key. Encryption is reversible, provided we know the cipher and can access the key.

